If a PySpark application continues to run even after you've applied the kill option (e.g., using sparkContext.cancelAllJobs() or sparkContext.stop()), there are a few other ways to forcefully stop the application. Here are some methods you can try:

1. Check and Kill the Process on the Driver Machine
If you're running the PySpark application locally or on a driver node (in cluster mode), you can manually terminate the process by identifying its Process ID (PID) and killing it.

Find the PID:
On Linux/Unix:

ps aux | grep pyspark
This will give you the process ID of the running PySpark application.

On MacOS: You can also use the Activity Monitor to find the process ID.

On Windows: Use the Task Manager to find and kill the PySpark-related process.

Kill the Process: Once you have the PID, kill the process using:
 
kill -9 <PID>


2. Kill the Spark Job via Resource Manager (YARN)
If the PySpark job is running on a cluster managed by YARN (Hadoop), you can kill the application using the YARN Resource Manager.

First, list all running applications:

 
yarn application -list
Identify the application ID from the list, and kill the application:

 
yarn application -kill <application_id>
You can also navigate to the YARN Resource Manager UI and kill the application manually through the interface by finding the application and selecting the "Kill" option.


3. Kill the Spark Job via Spark Web UI
If you're running the PySpark job on a Spark cluster, you can use the Spark Web UI to kill the job.

Navigate to the Spark UI (usually available at http://<driver-host>:4040 for local jobs, or the Spark Master/Resource Manager URL for cluster jobs).
Under the "Jobs" tab, find the running job.
Click on the "Kill" button next to the job to terminate it.


4. Terminate EC2 Instances (if running on AWS EMR)
If you're running the PySpark job on AWS EMR or EC2, and the job refuses to stop, you can forcefully terminate the EC2 instances that are running the job.

First, list the EMR clusters:

 
aws emr list-clusters
Find the cluster ID, and terminate the cluster:

 
aws emr terminate-clusters --cluster-ids <cluster-id>
If the job is running on standalone EC2 instances, you can stop the EC2 instance running the job from the EC2 Management Console or using the AWS CLI:

 
aws ec2 stop-instances --instance-ids <instance-id>


5. Use kill -9 on the Executor Nodes (for Spark on Kubernetes or Standalone Mode)
If you're running a PySpark job on Kubernetes or in standalone Spark mode, you may need to kill the individual executor processes.

On Kubernetes: Use kubectl to delete the pods that are running the Spark executors.

 
kubectl delete pod <executor-pod-name>
On Standalone Spark: Identify the executor processes and kill them using kill -9 on each worker node.


6. Terminate Spark Session via REST API
Spark provides a REST API to manage and control jobs and applications. You can use this API to programmatically kill jobs.

First, find the application ID using the Spark Master Web UI or the REST API:

 
curl http://<spark-master-host>:8080/api/v1/applications
Then, kill the application using the following API call:

 
curl -X DELETE http://<spark-master-host>:8080/api/v1/applications/<app-id>/kill


7. Terminate via Cloud Management Console
If your PySpark job is running on a cloud-managed service like AWS Glue, Databricks, or Google Cloud Dataproc, you can stop the job through their respective cloud management consoles.

For example, in Databricks:

Go to the Jobs page and find the running job.
Click on the job and then select "Terminate" or "Cancel" to stop the job.
8. Force Stop with Cluster Resource Management Tools
If the PySpark job is running on a cluster that uses resource management systems like Mesos, Kubernetes, or Standalone Spark, you can use the cluster management tools to forcefully terminate the job.

For Mesos:
 
mesos terminate <task-id>


9. Check for System Resource Issues
If the kill command is not working due to system issues (like the system running out of memory or disk), try rebooting the machine or instance to ensure the job is fully terminated.

10. Check for Infinite Loops or Hung Executors
Sometimes, PySpark jobs hang because of infinite loops or deadlocked executors. Debugging the application logs might give insight into the root cause, and killing the specific executor might resolve the issue.
